[Serve] [Docs] Update the "Monitoring Ray Serve" Page (#27777)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/monitoring.md

# Monitoring Ray Serve

This section should help you debug and monitor your Serve applications by:

* viewing the Ray dashboard
* using Ray logging and Loki
* inspecting built-in Ray Serve metrics

## Ray dashboard

You can use the Ray dashboard to get a high-level overview of your Ray cluster and Ray Serve application's states.
This includes details such as:
* the number of deployment replicas currently running
* logs for your Serve controller, deployment replicas, and HTTP proxies

> * the Ray nodes (i.e. machines) running in your Ray cluster

Reviewer: period to end the last bullet point

You can access the Ray dashboard at port 8265 at your cluster's URI.

> For example, if you're running Ray Serve on a local Ray cluster, you can access the dashboard by going to this address in your browser:
> 
> ```
> http://localhost:8265
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you're running Ray Serve locally, you can access the dashboard by going to `http://localhost:8265` in your browser.
```

save some page real estate

We can view important information about our application here.

> For example, we can inspect our deployment replicas by navigating to the Ray dashboard's "Actors" tab while our Serve application is running:

Reviewer: the previous paragraph used "you" and now you're using "we," stick with one

        logger.setLevel(logging.ERROR)
```

This controls which logs are written to STDOUT or files on disk.
You can also use your own custom logger, in which case you'll need to configure the behavior to write to STDOUT/STDERR, files on disk, or both.

> 

Reviewer 2: Apart from standard Python logger, Serve supports custom logging. Custom logging via configuration can control the behavior of what messages are written to STDOUT/STDERR, files on disk, or both.

For a detailed overview of logging in Ray, see [Ray Logging](ray-logging).

(serve-logging-loki)=
### Filtering logs with Loki

You can explore and filter your logs using [Loki](https://grafana.com/oss/loki/).
Setup and configuration is straightforward on Kubernetes, but as a tutorial, let's set up Loki manually.

> 

Reviewer 2: Is "setup and configuration" considered a singular compound subject (like ham and cheese is great for breakfast) in this context? If not perhaps change to

"Setup and configuration are straightforward on Kubernetes."

  - url: http://localhost:3100/loki/api/v1/push

scrape_configs:
  - job_name: ray
    static_configs:
      - labels:
        job: ray
        __path__: /tmp/ray/session_latest/logs/serve/*.*
```

The relevant part for Ray Serve is the `static_configs` field, where we have indicated the location of our log files with `__path__`.

> The expression `*.*` will match all files, but not directories, which cause an error with Promtail.

Author: What does this sentence mean? Is it saying that directories in general cause an error with Promtail? Or is it saying that the expression `*.*` matches all files (but not directories) that cause an error with Promtail?

Reviewer: Hmm I'm not actually sure but I'd interpret it as "this matches all files, but doesn't match any directories, which causes an error with Promtail."

I think it was written by @simon-mo or @architkulkarni ?

Reviewer 3: I wrote this a while ago, I believe it means that directories cause an error with promtail, so use `*.*` to not match directories

Reviewer 4: yup @architkulkarni is correct

Author: Thanks, I revised the wording.

> :align: center

Reviewer 2: passward "admin."

Then run the following script:

```{literalinclude} doc_code/monitoring/metrics_snippet.py
:start-after: __start__
:end-before: __end__
:language: python
```

The requests will loop and can be canceled with `ctrl-c`. 

> 

Reviewer 2: The requests will loop until canceled with `ctrl-c`.
